# Data Retention [Coding Practice]

## Overview

Almost all web applications have a feature that is responsible for retaining persistent data. Whether it's sent by the client or generated by a server, data should always be secured as appropriate, and only retained long enough to complete its purpose.

## Recommendations
###### Description

**Data retention** refers to how long persistent data is kept by its controller, i.e. your application.
###### Why We Care

Keeping data longer than its needed causes an unneeded increase in risk for the owner of the data, whether it's our own here at Brightcove, or one of our users' that they've provided as part of our services.
###### Example of Issue (Optional)

User analytics are one of the most common cases of data being kept longer than it should. 

An example of this would be an analytics application that is developed for marketing contractors. It does its job of collecting data and providing feedback, etc. But when the contractors complete their jobs, the data is still kept, whether by mistake or a "just in case" situation where its kept around because it's full usage by other applications is unknown. 
###### How to Fix?

There are several best practices you can introduce to maintain responsible retention of data:

* Include data retention from the design phase of the SDLC process for the app
  * Decide how long you think you'll need the data obtained by the application
  * Make sure to include a way to easily change the retention period, if warranted
* Regularly reassess the retention needs of the application as time goes on
* Keep in mind compliance frameworks and privacy laws, such as GDPR
* Ensure there's an easy and straightforward process involved for fully deleting the data set, when ready
* Make sure that data is encrypted when needed, both during transport and at rest
    * Ex: customer information used in the example user analytics above should be sent over TLS, and any databases the data is stored in should be encrypted at the database level
    * AWS RDS databases and S3 buckets both offer an encryption at rest option
###### Risk Rating

The risk associated with improperly retained data range from Low to High, depending on the data involved.
